CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to Contribute

We welcome your contribution. For best effect, please follow our guidelines:

- [Report a Bug](#report-a-bug) 
- [Suggest a Feature](#suggest-a-feature) 
- [Contribute Code](#contribute-code) 

If you need help, please reach out to us by opening an issue.

## Report a Bug 
Before creating a bug report, please check that an [issue](/issues) reporting the same problem does not already exist. If there is such an issue, you may add your information as a comment.

To report a new bug you should open an issue that summarizes the bug and set the label to "bug".

If you want to provide a fix along with your bug report, please send us a pull request. See [Contribute Code](#contribute-code).

## Suggest a Feature
First check if there's already a request for that feature. If there is and the ticket is open, add a comment rather than creating a new feature.

Otherwise open an [issue](../../issues/new), write up your idea and set the issue label to "feature".  

## Contribute Code

1. Ensure you [have the right](http://developercertificate.org) - depending on country and your contract, you may need your employer's permission.
1. Check if an issue exists for your work. If not, create an [issue](../../issues/new).
1. Assign yourself the [issue](/issues). Do this early so we can engage with your ideas and our plans.
1. Fork the repository.
1. Create a branch. If you choose to follow our convention, use a name like 'bug/27_issue_title' where 27 is the bug or feature ID and issue_title is a short version of its title.
1. Open a new pull request on our project, label it `work in progress`, outline what you will be contributing and if your repo is public, give a link.
1. If we don't respond within a few days, email oss@gfk.com to remind us to take a look.
1. Write good [commit messages](#commit-messages).
1. Push your changes to a topic branch in your fork of the repository.
1. Project maintainers might comment on your work as you progress.
1. When you are done, remove the `work in progess` label and ping the maintainers for a review.
1. Your pull request must receive a :thumbsup:

### Commit Messages
Your commit messages ideally can answer two questions: what changed and why. The subject line should feature the 
“what” and the body of the commit should describe the “why”.  

When creating a pull request, its description should reference the corresponding issue id.

#### Sign Your Work / Developer Certificate of Origin
All contributions (including pull requests) must agree to the Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) version 1.1. This is exactly the same one 
created and used by the Linux kernel developers and posted on http://developercertificate.org/. This is a 
developer's certification that he or she has the right to submit the patch for inclusion into the project. 
Simply submitting a contribution implies this agreement, however, please include a "Signed-off-by" tag in every patch 
(this tag is a conventional way to confirm that you agree to the DCO) - you can automate this 
with a [Git hook](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15015894/git-add-signed-off-by-line-using-format-signoff-not-working)

## It's Our Repo
These repos belong to GFK. We may edit, delete or reject any content. It's up to you to keep a copy if it's important.

In particular, we may remove content we consider offensive or spam. We may also refactor code. If you disagree and want us to rethink some action, email oss@gfk.com.

# Ackknowledgements
The original version of this is based on [Zalando's](https://github.com/zalando/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)




TODO:
Do I add a optional step where we agree a proposed change is appropriate?

Commit message:

make "Contribute Code" simpler
main reason: external contributers cannot set labels or assign issues on GH

(something similar can be achieved by using different issue templates with
pre-assigned labels, but this is probably an overkill for this template)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to Contribute

We welcome your contribution. For best effect, please follow our guidelines:

- [Report a Bug](#report-a-bug)
- [Suggest a Feature](#suggest-a-feature)
- [Contribute Code](#contribute-code)

If you need help, please reach out to us by opening an issue.

## Report a Bug 
Before creating a bug report, please check that an [issue](/issues) reporting the same problem does not already exist. 
If there is such an issue, you may add your information as a comment.

To report a new bug you should open an issue that summarizes the bug and ideally includes a minimal reproducible example.

If you want to provide a fix along with your bug report, please send us a pull request. See [Contribute Code](#contribute-code).

## Suggest a Feature
First check if there's already a request for that feature.
If there is and the ticket is open, add a comment rather than creating a new feature.

Otherwise open an [issue](../../issues/new) and write up your idea.

## Contribute Code

1. Ensure you [have the right](http://developercertificate.org).
1. Check if an issue exists for your work. If not, create an [issue](../../issues/new).
1. Fork the repository.
1. Create a branch. If you choose to follow our convention, use a name like 'bug/27_issue_title' where 27 is the bug or feature ID and issue_title is a short version of its title.
1. Open a new pull request on our project and outline what you will be contributing.
1. Write good [commit messages](#commit-messages).
1. Project maintainers might comment on your work as you progress.
1. When you are done, ping the maintainers for a review.

### Commit Messages
Your commit messages ideally can answer two questions: what changed and why. 
The subject line should feature the “what” and the body of the commit should describe the “why”.  

When creating a pull request, its description should reference the corresponding issue id.

#### Sign Your Work / Developer Certificate of Origin
All contributions (including pull requests) must agree to the Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO) version 1.1. 
This is exactly the same one created and used by the Linux kernel developers and posted on http://developercertificate.org/.
This is a developer's certification that he or she has the right to submit the patch for inclusion into the project. 
Simply submitting a contribution implies this agreement, however, please include a "Signed-off-by" tag in every patch (this tag is a conventional way to confirm that you agree to the DCO). 
You can automate this with a [Git hook](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/15015894/git-add-signed-off-by-line-using-format-signoff-not-working)

## It's Our Repo
This repo belongs to GFK. We may edit, delete or reject any content. 
It's up to you to keep a copy if it's important.

In particular, we may remove content we consider offensive or spam. 
We may also refactor your code.

# Ackknowledgements
The original version of this is based on [Zalando's](https://github.com/zalando/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
